# Mutations

`mutation` operation is for changing/updating/deleting the data.
You can think of `mutation` operation as a `POST` or `PUT` or `DELETE` when it comes to `REST` paradigm.

The `GraphQL` signature is basically the same as the `query` operation

```graphql
mutation {
  message(input: { content: "foo" }) {
    id
    content
    createdAt
  }
}
```

Notice the `mutation` keyword. This is the main difference with the `query` operation.

When it comes to arguments, `mutation` **can but does not have to take arguments**.
This all depends on the use case.

## Exercise

Create a `mutation` which will modify users profile data. Remember to look at the [GraphQL playground](http://localhost:4000/playground)
if you are not sure how the schema looks like.

You will also need to create a `query` to get the data in the first place.
After you have all the necessary operations prepared, use `UserProfile` component to perform the necessary actions.

Remember to assign **meaningful** names to your `query` and `mutation` operations.

## Extra credit

### 💯 Write a sample test

During the previous exercise we focused on testing the `query`. Now we have a new element to test - the `mutation`.
Remember that the `variables` section on the mock **has to be exactly the same as the `variables` that you pass to your mutation**.

You will also need to pass `cache` instance to the `MockedProvider` and remove the `addTypename`, otherwise our UI will not update. Can you tell why?

### 💯 Use `fragments` to remove duplication

You might have noticed that we have some duplication between our `query` and `mutation`.
The fields that we are pulling are overlapping. There is a handy unit that can help us - `fragments`.

`fragments` let you construct set of fields and then include them in `queries` or `mutations`.

The syntax for `fragments` [can be found here](https://graphql.org/learn/queries/#fragments).

### 💯 Solve the mystery

You might already encountered this problem. When defining a `mutation`, exclude `id` field from the definition.

With that you will notice that our UI is not updated automatically, why is that?
