# Interacting with the cache (basics)

Cache is one of the features of `Apollo Client`. The `inMemoryCache` module is really powerful.
It makes it so that your queries fire only when needed, which is a huge plus, and on top of that
_Apollo_ introduces various ways to interact, extract or modify data, which is in the cache.

We already learned about the automatic state updates that _Apollo Client_ provides.
This is carried out by matching the `__typename` and the identifier of the object returned by the `query` or `mutation` operation.

Remember, when it comes to _Apollo Client_ the **`__typename` and the identifier are everything**.

The combination of those 2 will become an identifier for your results.
An example would be a `Message` type with field `id` which has value of `1`

```graphql
# cache identifier
Message:1
```

But this is not only limited to objects returned by a `query` or a `mutation`.
The operation themselves are **also cached**. In such case, the combination of the `query name`
and the `variables` will become the identifier.

```graphql
# QUERY_NAME(VARIABLES)
MessagesQuery(limit:10)
```

_Apollo_ has [great docs which you should definitely read](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/v3.0-beta/caching/cache-configuration/)

## Exercise

Cache manipulation will be required in cases where the `mutation` does not return
the same data as the given `query` operation. In our case that would be `messages`
`query` and `message` `mutation`. Which totally makes sense, image a mutation returning
paginated set of messages - complete waste of resources.

This is where two most basic methods of cache extraction and manipulation **might** be used.
These are `writeQuery` and `readQuery`.

Given the UI in the `exercises/05.tsx`, when new message is received, see if you can
update the list of messages by putting the message that you got from the `mutation` into the cache.
With that, the UI should update automatically, this is the power of `Apollo Client`.

## Extra Credit

### 💯 Write tests for the success and error case

You already know about the `MockedProvider` component, which is used for testing.
Our UI is getting more and more complex, so it would be nice to cover happy and sad path with tests.

Write 2 test cases, one for the happy path, one for the sad path. Remember about the **variables** when defining your mocks.
They have to be the same as the ones provided during the mutation call.

### 💯 Use the `refetchQueries` property as an escape hatch

Sometimes you have to update a couple of operations, and you would like to just mark them as _expired_, thus making it so that
they will be _refetched_. This is the simplest way of updating your UI after using `mutation`, but it potentially introduces unnecessary HTTP calls.

See if you can make it so that your `MessagesQuery` is refetched automatically after we perform the `mutation` by configuring `refetchQueries` property.
