# Authorization

Previous exercises involved `mutations` and `queries` but we never worried about
any aspect of _authorization_. We used the `getMockAuthorizationToken` and assigned that to the `Authorization` header.

What if we need to perform that action _per request_ and not statically? This is usually true for any kind of web app
where _authorization_ is involved.

`Apollo Client` operates on the notion of _links_. You can think of those links
as `middlewares` or `afterwares` that modify the request that you make.

You already used links, mainly while creating the `httpLink`.

```typescript
const httpLink = new HttpLink({ uri: "...." });
```

The `httpLink` is a middleware that actually sends our request.

_Links_, just like functions, can be combined. `Apollo Client` uses two abstractions for that:

- `concat`
- `ApolloLink.from`

## Exercise

Before, we assigned value to `Authorization` header during the creation of the `httpLink`.
While this is a valid strategy, we often need to implement some kind of refresh token flow within our apps, thus the value has to be assigned per request.

As a first step, [implement your own](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/networking/network-layer/#middleware) simple `ApolloLink` which assigns the `Authorization` header dynamically per request.

Remember that you can use either `concat` or `ApolloLink.from` to combine your middlewares.
I would recommend you to use `ApolloLink.from` since `concat` can become cumbersome when more links are involved.

## Extra Credit

### 💯 Write simple test for your link

New functionality - time for a test. Testing _links_ is really simple, but it might seem hard at the first glance,
mostly because `Apollo Client` uses `Observables` underneath.

### 💯 Create an afterware, which fetches the actual token

Now comes the fun part. What if your token has an expiration date? You would normally want to get the new one,
but you would not want to do that with each request right?

This is where the concept of an _afterware_ comes in. An _afterware_ is a special kind of _link_ which runs **after** the request. With that we can check if our backend returned `401`, fetch the token, and retry the request.

For the implementation you will need to:

1. Save current token in local storage
2. Get the token from the local storage and assign it to `Authorization` header in a `middleware` that you created
3. Implement an _afterware_ which check for errors, gets new token and retries the request.

You will want to use `@apollo/link-error` package, which does a lot of heavy lifting for you.
You can get the new token by issuing `GET` to `http://localhost:4000/get-token` endpoint.

### 💯 Write simple test for our afterware

Since _authorization_ is a very important part of our application, we should make sure it's well tested to have a confidence that it indeed is working.

You already have all the tools that you need to write this test. One hint I can give is that you **should look into dependency injection** to _inject_ the _get new token_ functionality.
