# Setting up Apollo Client

## What is `Apollo Client`

`Apollo Client` is the THING that will provide all abstractions needed to work with `GraphQL` API.

It provides a rich ecosystem of tools, has great support and tons of people are using it in production.

## History

We will be using version 3 of the package.
This version greatly simplifies dependency management. You only need two packages:

- `Apollo Client` itself
- the `graphql` package

This did not use to be the case, so we are in luck now that the `Apollo Client` team decided to go this route 😊

## Exercise

The goal of this exercise is to get you familiar with the basic concepts of `Apollo Client`.

Go ahead and install the client and `graphql` package if you have not yet already.

```shell script
npm install @apollo/client graphql
```

Then, initialize it with all the necessary constructs like `HttpLink` and `Cache`.
Use [the documentation](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/v3.0-beta/get-started/) if you need any help — it is well written and helpful.

You can get the `URI` of the backend from `utils/backend` file and use
`getMockAuthorizationHeader` to set headers (this is temporary, we will dive into _authorization_ later on).

## Extra Credit

### 💯 Create a `Provider` component

As like many `React` libraries, `Apollo Client` uses `React.Context` under the hood, thus it provides `ApolloProvider` component.

This is great, but usually we want to encapsulate concerns (in this case creating the `ApolloProvider` itself) in a separate file.

See if you can figure a way of doing so.

### 💯 Test `httpLink` for the correct URI

Mistakes happen. Take me for example, I pushed an `http://localhost:3000/graphql` URI to a production, resulting in a downtime.

Since we do not want that to happen, let's write a test that simply reads the URI specified on the `httpLink` as and asserts that it has correct value.

You will need to `export` the `httpLink` from the exercise file. The test file should reside within the `src/__tests__` directory.
