# Queries

`query` operation simply asks for data. Remember that with `GraphQL` the data returned is **always the data you asked for**. Nothing more, nothing less. 

You can think of `query` operation as a `GET` in a REST environment.
It should not perform any kind of side effects on the backend.

A simple query example:
```graphql
query {
    messages {
        id
        content
    }   
}
```

Can yield (assuming the data is there)

```json
{
  "data": {
    "messages": [
      {
        "id": "1f50bc5e-03bb-4c42-aa53-6854519c5485",
        "content": "first message"
      },
      {
        "id": "e153801e-108a-4ea2-978e-8ebac331d8fe",
        "content": "second message"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

Notice the `data` key. Responses within `GraphQL` have standardized format:

```json
{
    "data": {},
    "errors": {}
}
```

In the sample response I provided, the `error` key is not specified because an error did not occur.
We will look into error handling later on.

## Exercise

Write your first `query` and use `useQuery` hook from `@apollo/client` to get the results.

If you are unsure how the schema looks like, go to [GraphQL playground](http://localhost:4000/playground).
This is a special application exposed by the API, which acts as a documentation.
You can also perform all kinds of operations there, including `query` operation. 

## Extra Credit

### 💯 Add tests to your component

`Apollo Client` is not only about `fetching` and `caching` the data. It also provides abstractions for testing.

Write a simple test using `MockedProvider` which will assert that the messages are visible.
The [documentation](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/development-testing/testing/) might be really helpful.

### 💯 Make your `query` take a parameter

`query` operation can take parameters. See if you can use `limit` on the `messages` query to limit the results the backend API returns.

### 💯 Add tests for the `limit` parameter.

With the addition of the parameter we are missing an important test case for our component.
Make sure your component is easy to test, that is it takes a `limit` as a prop.

The `variables` key on the `MockedResponse` might help you with writing the test.
