# Type Generation

Defining types for the results that our operations return can be time consuming.
It would be nice if we could generate those every time we create, modify or delete
a `query` or a `mutation`.

Well, fear not because since `GraphQL` is a strongly typed data query language
we can install tooling that can do just that for us.

This capability is one of many which is why `GraphQL` is such a joy to work with.
While you can also automatically generate types from your `REST` API, there are many more
fantastic tools which are only possible due to `GraphQL`.

## Exercise

For this exercise we will be using [`GraphQL code generator`](https://graphql-code-generator.com/).
This package can do a lot, but for now, let's focus code generation.

Yes, you read it right, **code generation**. This package will generate pre-typed `useQuery` and `useMutation` hooks for you.

As with most tools, `GraphQL code generator` needs a config file. This is where you come in.
See if you can generate types from the operations defined within `exercise/05.tsx`
by going through the [initialization wizard](https://graphql-code-generator.com/docs/getting-started/installatio#initialization-wizard).

You will need include 3 *plugins*:
- typescript
- typescript-operations
- typescript-react-apollo
Also remember to specify the correct `reactApolloVersion` within the `config` block.


Since we are using `create react app` the generated code should be placed within `src` folder.

Next, replace the existing `useQuery` hook with the one that you generated.

