# Interacting with cache

Cache is one of the features of `Apollo Client`. The `inMemoryCache` module is really powerful.
It makes it so that your queries fire only when needed which is a huge plus, and on top of that
*Apollo* introduces various ways to interact, extract or modify data which is in cache.

We already learned about the automagical state updates that *Apollo Client* provides.
This is done by matching the `__typename` and the identifier of the object returned by the `query` or `mutation` operation.

Remember, when it comes to *Apollo Client* the **`__typename` and the identifier are everything**.

The combination of those 2 will become a identifier for your results.
An example would be a `Message` type with field `id` which has value of `1`

```
// cache identifier
Message:1
```

But this is not only limited to objects returned by a `query` or a `mutation`.
The operation themselves are **also cached**. In such case, the combination of the `query name`
and the `variables` will become the identifier.


```
// QUERY_NAME(VARIABLES)
MessagesQuery(limit:10)
```

*Apollo* has [great docs which you should definetely read](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/v3.0-beta/caching/cache-configuration/)

## Exercse

Cache manipulation will be required in cases where the `mutation` does not return
the same data as the given `query` operation. In our case that would be `messages`
`query` and `message` `mutation`. Which totally makes sense, image a mutation returning
paginated set of messages. Complete waste of resources.

This is where two most basic methods of cache extraction and manipulation **might** be used.
These are `writeQuery` and `readQuery`.

Given the UI in the `exercises/06.tsx`, when new message is received, see if you can
update the list of messages by putting the message that you got from the `mutation` into the cache.
With that, the UI should update automatically, this is the power of `Apollo Client`.






